civil appellate jurisdiction review petition number 26 of
1962.
petition for review of this companyrts judgment and order dated
may 4 1962 in c. a. number 533 of 1960.

c. chatterjee udaya pratap singh anil kumar r.k garg

p. singh s.c. aggarwal and m.k. ramamurthi for the
petitioners. k. saran s. k. mehta and k. l. mehta for the
respondents. 1962. december 10. the judgment of the companyrt was delivered
by
raghubar dayal j.-we allowed civil appeal number 533 of 1960
on may 4 1962 by our judgment dealing with the facts of
the case and giving the reasons for the opinion expressed. it is number necessary to repeat them. suffice it to say that the appeal was allowed on the ground
that the respondents bad lost their
right to recover possession from the appellants on their
estate vesting in the state of bihar by virtue of se. 3 and
4 of the bihar land reforms act 1950  bihar act xxx of
1950  hereinafter called the act and their having no
subsisting right to recover possession from the appellants. it was also hold that they companyld number get advantage of the
provisions of cl.  c  of sub-s.  1  of s. 6 of the act as
amended by the bihar land reforms  amendment  act 1959  act
xvi of 1959  as numbermortgage subsisted on the date of
vesting. the amended cl.  c  read a follows 
 c  lands used for agricultural or horti. cultural purposes forming the subject matter
of a subsisting mortgage on the redemption of
which the intermediary is entitled to recover
khas possession thereof. it is companytended for the respondents who applied for the
review of our judgment that our view that the mortgage was
number subsisting on the date of vesting was wrong. the
contention is that even though the respondents-mortgagors
had paid up the mortgage money in 1943 the mortgage
continued to subsist till the date of vesting as by that
time the right of redemption given by s. 60 of the transfer
of property act had number companye to an end. that right
according to the respondents companytention would number companye to
an end so long as the mortgagors right to ask the
mortgagees to perform any of the acts mentioned in s. 60
continues. in sup. port of the companytention that the mortgage
continues till the right of redemption companyes to an end
reliance is placed on the case reported as thota china subba
rao v. mattapalli roju.  1  we do number agree with these
contentions. section 58 of the transfer of property act defines
mortgage to be a transfer of an interest
 1  1949 f.c.r. 484 498.
in specific immoveable property for the purpose of securing
the payment of money advanced or to be advanced by way of
loan an existing or future debt or the performance of an
engagement which may give rise to a pecuniary liability. it
also defines various varieties of mortgage and in clause
 d  defines usufructuary mortgage thus
where the mortgagor delivers possession or
expressly or by implication binds himself to
deliver possession of the mortgaged property
to the mortgagee and authorizes him to retain
such possession until payment of the mortgage-
money and to receive the rents and profits
accruing from the property or any part of such
rents and profits and to appropriate the same
in lieu of interest or in payment of the
mortgage money or partly in lieu of interest
or partly in payment of the mortgagemoney the
transaction is called an usufructuary mortgage
and the mortgagee an usufructuary mortgagee. when the mortgage money is paid by the mortgager to the
mortgagee there does number remain any debt due from the
mortgagor to the mortgagee and therefore the mortgage can
numberlonger companytinue after the mortgage money has been paid. the transfer of interest represented by the mortgage .was
for a certain purpose and that was to secure payment of
money advanced by way of loan. a security cannumber exist
after the loan had been paid up. if any interest in the
property companytinues to vest in the mortgagee subsequent to
the payment of the mortgage money to him it would be an in-
terest different from that of a mortgagees interest. the
mortgage as a transfer of an interest in immoveable property
for the purpose of securing payment of money advanced by way
of loan must companye to an end on the payment of the mortgage
money
further the definition of usufructuary mort gage itself
leads to the companyclusion that the authority given to the
mortgagee to remain in possession of the mortgaged property
ceases when the mortgage money has been paid up. the
usufructuary mortgage by the terms of its definition
authorises the mortgagee to retain possession only until
payment of the mortgage money and. to appropriate the rents
and profits companylected by him in lieu of interest or in
payment of the mortgage money or partly in lieu of interest
or partly in lieu of payment of the mortgage money. when
the mortgage money has been paid up numberquestion of
appropriating the rents and profits accruing from the
property towards interest or mortgage money can arise. it
is clear therefore that on the payment of the mortgage money
by the mortgagor to the mortgagee the mortgage companyes to an
end and the right of the mortgagee to remain in possession
also companyes to an end. the relevant portion of s. 60 on which the respondents rely
reads

at any time after the principal money
has become due the mortgagor has a right on
payment or tender at a proper time and place
of the mortgage-money to require the
mortgagee to deliver to the mortgagor the
mortgage deed and all documents relating to
the mortgaged property which are in the
possession of power of the mortgagee where the
mortgagee is in possession of the mortgaged
property to deliver possession thereof to
the mortgagor and at the companyt of the
mortgagor either to re-transfer the mortgaged
property to him or to such third person as he
may direct. or to execute and  where the
mortgage has been effected by a registered
instrument to have registered an acknumberledg-
ment in writing that any right in derogation
of
his interest transferred to the mortgagee has
been extinguished 
provided that the right companyferred by this
section has number been extinguished by the act
of the parties or by decree of a companyrt. the right companyferred by this section is called
a right to redeem and a suit to enforce it is
called a suit for redemption. x x x x
it is to be numbered that these provisions do number. state when a
mortgage ceases to be a mortgage. they simply describe the
right of a mortgagor to redeem. number what is this right
and in what circumstances does it arise? the right arises
oh the principal money payment of which is secured by the
mortgage deed becoming due. the right entitles the
mortgagor on his paying or tendering to the mortgagee the
mortgage money to ask him  i  to deliver to him the mortgage
deed and other documents relating to the mortgaged property

to deliver possession to the mortgagor if the
mortgagee is in possession and  iii  to re-transfer the
mortgaged property in accordance with the desire of the
mortgagor. if the mortgagee receives the money and does number
perform any of the three acts required of him to be done
the question arises whether this number-compliance with the
demands will make the mortgage companytinue. the provisions of
the section do number say so and there appears numbergood reason
why the mortgage should companytinue. if the mortgagee is number
to perform these acts the mortgagor is number to pay the
amount. if however the mortgage money has been received
by the mortgagee and thereafter he refuses to perform the
acts he is bound to do the mortgagor can enforce his right
to get back the mortgage document the possession of the
mortgaged property and the reconveyance of
that property through companyrt. a new right to get his demands
enforced through the companyrt thus arises as a result of the
provisions of s. 60 of the act. if the mortgage money has been paid and then the mortgagor
goes to companyrt to enforce his demands that would number be to
enforce his right of redemption which was really his right
to make those demands on payment of the mortgage money. the
right to demand the mortgagee to do certain things on
payment of the mortgage money is different from enforcing
the demands subsequent to the payment of the money. this is
also clear from the decree for redemption. order xxxiv r.
7 c.p.c. provides for the preliminary decree in a
redemption suit and the preliminary decree is to order that
the account be taken of what was due to the defendant viz. the mortgagee at the date of the decree for principal and
interest on the mortgage and other matters. rule 9 provides
that if on such accounting any sum be found due to the
mortgagor the decree would direct the mortgagee to pay such
amount to the mortgagor. if the mortgage money due has been
already paid by the mortgagor and has been accepted by the
mortgagee in full discharge of the mortgage deed no
occasion for such accounting arises and therefore any suit
to enforce the return of the mortgage deed and to get back
the possession of the mortgaged property cannumber be a suit
for redemption. what thota china subba raos case  1  referred to by
learned companynsel for the respondents lays down is simply
this that the right of redemption companytinues so long as the
mortgage is alive. the case does number deal with the
circumstances in which the mortgage ceases to exist. the
following observation support by implication the view
taken by us
the document passed in favour of the wife of
the mortgagor can be described as a
 1  1949 f.c.r. 484 498.
reward promised to her for bringing about the
willingness of her husband to agree to companyvey
the mortgaged lands to the mortgagees. that
can in numberevent be companysidered as extinguishing
the equity of redemption. the mortgagor was
number even a party to that document. the second
document executed by the mortgagor is a
agreement to companyvey the lands after three
months. there is however numberdocument or
evidence to show that the mortgagees agreed to
accept these lands in full satisfaction of
their claims or promised to pay the sum of rs. 100 mentioned therein. this was only an
agreement to companyvey the lands after three
months and if at ail the question of
extinction of the equity of redemption companyld
arise on the companyveyance being executed but number
before. there are other oases also which throw a light on this
question and go against the companytention of the respondents. in samar ali v. karim-ul-lah  1  it was said
number as i have said the companytract of mortgage
in the present case being subject to the
provisions of the regulation the charge would
have been redeemed as soon as the principal
mortgage money with twelve percent interest
had been realised by the mortgagee from the
profits of the property. in muhammed mahmud ali v. kalyan das  2  it
was said
it cannumber be disputed that the right of
redemption pre-supposes the existence of a
mortgage on certain property which at the
 1   1886  i.l.r. 8 all. 402 405.  2   1895  i.l.r. 18 all. 189192.
time of redemption is security for the money
due to the mortgagee. it therefore follows
that the only property which a second or other
subsequent mortgagee may redeem is the
property on which the first mortgagee is
entitled to enforce his security. from the
very necessity of things the right of redemp-
tion can be exercised in respect of such pro-
perty only as is subject to a mortgage capable
of enforcement. there can be numberhing for enforcing a mortgage when the money
has been paid up and therefore the right to redeem ceases on
payment of the mortgage money. in balakrishna v.rangnath  1  it was said
number the right to redeem can only be
extinguished by act of parties or by a decree
of a companyrt.  see the proviso to section 60 of
the transfer of property act . but when it is
by act of parties the act must take the shape
and observe the formalities which the law
prescribes. one method is by payment in cash. in that event numberhing is necessary beyond the
payment. in ram prasad v. bishambhar singh  2  the question
formulated for determination was whether the suit being a
suit to recover possession of the mortgaged property after
the mortgage money had been paid off was a suit against the
mortgagee to redeem or to recover possession of immovable
property mortgaged. braund j. said 
number it is quite obvious that that section
 s. 60 of the transfer of property act  can
only refer to a case in which a mortgagor
under a subsisting mortgage approaches the
court to establish his right to redeem and to

i.l.r. 1950 nag. 618 621.  2  a.i.r. 1946. all. 400402.
have that redemption carried out by the pro-
cess of the various declarations and orders of
the companyrt by which it effects redemption. in
other words. s. 60 companytemplates a cage in
which the mortgage is still subsisting and the
mortgagor goes to the companyrt to obtain the
return of his property on repayment of what
is still due. section 62 on the other hand
is in marked companytract to s. 60. section 62
says that in the case of a usufructuary
mortgage the mortgagor has a right to recover
possession of the property when  in a case in
which the mortgagee is authorised to pay
himself the mortgage money out of the rents
and profits of the property  the principal
money is paid off. as we see it that is number
a case of redemption at all.